---
layout: paper
title: Exploring the synergy of EMG and TENG in motion based hybrid energy harvesting
image: "/lab_images/papers/EX1.png"
authors: Fuzhen Xing, Guoqiang Tang, Hao Wang, Man Wang, Mengwei Wu, Minyi Xu
year: 2024
ref: "Fuzhen Xing.et al. 2024. NANO ENERGY."
journal: "NANO ENERGY"
pdf: "/pdfs/EX.pdf"
doi: 10.1016/j.nanoen.2024.110584
type: journal
---

# Abstract


This review paper explores the integration of electromagnetic generation (EMG) and triboelectric nanogeneration (TENG) technologies, emphasizing their classification based on motion types: linear, rotational, and vibration-based. By examining each motion type, we highlight the unique characteristics, advantages, and challenges associated with hybrid EMG-TENG systems. Linear motion devices are particularly effective in harnessing energy from predictable sources, such as ocean waves, demonstrating moderate power outputs suitable for marine applications. Rotational motion devices excel in environments with continuous high-speed motions, achieving higher energy outputs, especially in wind energy systems. In contrast, vibration-based devices capture energy from irregular and low-frequency movements, offering versatility for applications in vehicles and wearable electronics. The review also discusses recent developments in hybrid systems, showcasing advancements in materials and designs that enhance energy capture and efficiency. Despite the progress, challenges remain, including mechanical wear, environmental influences, and the need for precise alignment. By understanding the complementary nature of EMG and TENG technologies, this review highlights how their integration can address the limitations of each technology. EMG excels in capturing high-speed, continuous motion, while TENG is more effective for low-frequency and irregular motion, allowing hybrid systems to efficiently harvest energy in diverse environments. Ultimately, the findings suggest that the strategic integration of EMG and TENG technologies can contribute significantly to sustainable energy solutions, paving the way for innovative developments in energy harvesting.



