---
layout: paper
title: "Recent advances in wave-driven triboelectric nanogenerators: from manufacturing to applications"
image: "/lab_images/papers/RA1.png"
authors: Zhu, CQ (Zhu, Chuanqing) ; Xiang, C (Xiang, Cheng) ; Wu, MW (Wu, Mengwei) ; Yu, CN (Yu, Chengnuo) ; Dai, S (Dai, Shu) ; Sun, QJ (Sun, Qijun) ; Zhou, TM (Zhou, Tongming) ; Wang, H (Wang, Hao) ; Xu, MY (Xu, Minyi)
year: 2024
ref: "Zhu, Chuanqing. et al. 2024. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF EXTREME MANUFACTURING."
journal: "INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF EXTREME MANUFACTURING"
pdf: "/pdfs/RA2.pdf"
doi: 10.1088/2631-7990/ad7b04
type: journal
---

# Abstract


The ocean is the largest reservoir of renewable energy on earth, in which wave energy occupies an important position due to its high energy density and extensive distribution. As a cutting-edge technology, wave-driven triboelectric nanogenerators (W-TENGs) demonstrate substantial potential for ocean energy conversion and utilization. This paper provides a comprehensive review of W-TENGs, from materials manufacturing and structural fabrications to marine applications. It highlights the versatility in materials selection for W-TENGs and the potential for unique treatments to enhance output performance. With the development of materials science, researchers can manufacture materials with various properties as needed. The structural design and fabrication of W-TENGs is the pillar of converting wave energy to electrical energy. The flexible combination of TENG's multiple working modes and advanced manufacturing methods make W-TENGs' structures rich and diverse. Advanced technologies, such as three-dimensional printing, make manufacturing and upgrading W-TENGs more convenient and efficient. This paper summarizes their structures and elucidates their features and manufacturing processes. It should be noted that all efforts made in materials and structures are aimed at W-TENGs, having a bright application prospect. The latest studies on W-TENGs for effective application in the marine field are reviewed, and their feasibility and practical value are evaluated. Finally, based on a systematic review, the existing challenges at this stage are pointed out. More importantly, strategies to address these challenges and directions for future research efforts are also discussed. This review aims to clarify the recent advances in standardization and scale-up of W-TENGs to promote richer innovation and practice in the future.

A comprehensive and systematic summary of the research processes for wave-driven triboelectric nanogenerators (W-TENGs) is presented, covering basic materials manufacturing, core structural fabrication, and future marine applications.The methods and paths for iterative upgrade and performance improvement of W-TENGs are pointed out.Analysis and evaluation of the latest applications of W-TENGs in the marine field are performed.Challenges in the current development of W-TENGs and the suggested future directions are elucidated.




