---
layout: paper
title: "Deep-Learning-Assisted Triboelectric Whisker Sensor Array for Real-Time Motion Sensing of Unmanned Underwater Vehicle"
image: "/lab_images/papers/DL1.png"
authors: Liu, B (Liu, Bo) ; Dong, BW (Dong, Bowen) ; Jin, H (Jin, Hao) ; Zhu, P (Zhu, Peng) ; Mu, ZY (Mu, Zhaoyang) ; Li, YZ (Li, Yuanzheng) ; Liu, JH (Liu, Jianhua) ; Meng, ZC (Meng, Zhaochen) ; Zhou, XY (Zhou, Xinyue) ; Xu, P (Xu, Peng) ; Xu, MY (Xu, Minyi)
year: 2024
ref: "Liu, Bo. et al. 2024. Advanced Materials Technologies."
journal: "Advanced Materials Technologies"
pdf: "/pdfs/DL2.pdf"
doi: 10.1002/admt.202401053
type: journal
---

# Abstract


Aquatic animals can perceive their surrounding flow fields through highly evolved sensory systems. For instance, a seal whisker array understands the hydrodynamic field that allows seals to forage and navigate in dark environments. In this work, a deep learning-assisted underwater triboelectric whisker sensor array (TWSA) is designed for the 3D motion estimation and near-field perception of unmanned underwater vehicles. Each sensor comprises a high aspect ratio elliptical whisker shaft, four sensing units at the root of the elliptical whisker shaft, and a flexible corrugated joint simulating the skin on the cheek surface of aquatic animals. The TWSA effectively identifies flow velocity and direction in the 3D underwater environments and exhibits a rapid response time of 19 ms, a high sensitivity of 0.2V/ms-1, and a signal-to-noise ratio of 58 dB. The device also locks onto the frequency of the upstream wake vortex, achieving a minimal detection accuracy of 81.2%. Moreover, when integrated with an unmanned underwater vehicle, the TWSA can estimate 3D trajectories assisted by a trained deep learning model, with a root mean square error of approximate to 0.02. Thus, the TWSA-based assisted perception holds immense potential for enhancing unmanned underwater vehicle near-field perception and navigation capabilities across a wide range of applications.

This work introduces a deep learning-assisted triboelectric whisker sensor array (TWSA) for 3D motion estimation and near-field perception in unmanned underwater vehicles. The TWSA detects flow velocity and direction. It achieves 81.2% accuracy in wake vortex detection and enables precise 3D trajectory estimation with a root mean square error of 0.02, significantly enhancing underwater vehicle navigation capabilities. image




