---
layout: paper
title: "High Performance Magnetic Mass-Enhanced Triboelectric-Electromagnetic Hybrid Vibration Energy Harvester Enabling Totally Self-Powered Long-Distance Wireless Sensing"
image: "/lab_images/papers/HP1.png"
authors: Xi, ZY (Xi, Ziyue) ; Yu, HY (Yu, Hongyong) ; Du, HX (Du, Hengxu) ; Yang, HY (Yang, Hengyi) ; Wang, YW (Wang, Yawei) ; Guan, MY (Guan, Mengyuan) ; Wang, ZY (Wang, Zhaoyang) ; Wang, H (Wang, Hao) ; Du, TL (Du, Taili) ; Xu, MY (Xu, Minyi)
year: 2024
ref: "Xi, Ziyue. et al. 2024. Advanced Materials Technologies."
journal: "Advanced Materials Technologies"
pdf: "/pdfs/HP2.pdf"
doi: 10.1002/admt.202400451
type: journal
---

# Abstract


Wireless sensor networks play a significant role in various fields, and it is promising to construct a totally self-powered wireless sensor network by harvesting unused mechanical vibration energy. Here, a magnetic mass-enhanced triboelectric-electromagnetic hybrid nanogenerator (MM-HNG) is proposed for harvesting mechanical vibration energy. The additional magnets generate magnetic fields for electromagnetic power generation. As an additional mass effectively increases the membrane's amplitude, thereby enhancing the output performance of the MM-HNG. The peak power density of TENG in the MM-HNG reaches 380.4 W m-3, while the peak power density of EMG achieves 736 W m-3, which can charge a 0.1 F capacitor rapidly. In addition, a totally self-powered wireless sensing system is constructed, with the integrated microcontroller unit (MCU), which detects and processes various sensing parameters and controls wireless transmission. The system features rapid transmission speeds and an extensive transmission range (up to 1 km), and its effectiveness has been validated in a practical application aboard an actual ship. The results illustrate the MM-HNG's broad applicability across various Internet of Things (IoT) scenarios, including smart machinery, smart transportation, and smart factories.

This work proposes a magnetic mass-enhanced triboelectric-electromagnetic hybrid nanogenerator for harvesting mechanical vibration energy and constructing a totally self-powered wireless sensing system. The system is characterized by fast transmission speed and long transmission distance, which provides an effective solution for totally self-powered long-distance wireless sensing. image



