---
layout: paper
title: Triboelectric and electromagnetic hybrid generators for ocean energy harvesting
image: "/lab_images/papers/NE.png"
authors: Cai, H; Du, TL; Dong, FY; Chen, ZX; Shen, DL; Zou, YJ; Xu, MY
year: 2024
ref: "Cai, Hu.et al. 2024. NANO ENERGY."
journal: "NANO ENERGY"
pdf: "/pdfs/NE.pdf"
doi: 10.1016/j.nanoen.2024.110363
type: journal
---

# Abstract


Ocean energy is becoming increasingly important as a promising renewable energy source in modern society. Therefore, how to efficiently harvest ocean energy has attracted extensive research attention. In recent years, hybrid nanogenerators consisting of triboelectric and electromagnetic generators (TEHNGs), which compensate for the deficiency of energy conversion efficiency of single type generator, has been proposed and provided a promising way to harvest ocean energy effectively. Therefore, this review provides a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of TEHNGs from the structural design perspective. The characteristics including structural design, material selection, output performance, etc., of the four types TEHNGS are systematically summarized for the first time. The operating characteristics of TEHNGs with different structures in the ocean are elaborated in detail, as well as the significant influence of structural design on the output power of TEHNGs. In addition, the application scenario, environmental adaptability, and mutual assistance between TENG and EMG are discussed deeply. Finally, the existing challenges and development orientation in the aspects of structure design, materials, power management, durability and stability, and large-scale development, of the TEHNGs are put forward. It is believed that this work will be a significant reference for researchers in relevant field and conducive to the development of the TEHNGs in efficient ocean energy harvesting.




