---
layout: paper
title: A Fully Self-Driven Power Management Circuit Based on Cycles for Maximized Energy Output Strategy for Universal Triboelectric Energy Harvesting
image: "/lab_images/papers/XIN1.png"
authors: Yida Xin, Taili Du, Haiying Du, Dianlong Shen, Jing Wang, Peiting Sun, Minyi Xu
year: 2025
ref: "Yida Xin.et al. 2025. Sustainable Energy Technologies and Assessments."
journal: "Sustainable Energy Technologies and Assessments"
pdf: "/pdfs/XIN.pdf"
doi: 10.2139/ssrn.5007979
type: journal
---

# Abstract


The inherent capacitor characteristic of the triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG) raises a significant challenge in achieving high energy harvesting efficiency. Power management has been treated as one of the most promising way to address this problem. Different from management only by traditional rectifier bridge, passive power management is more in line with the actual scenario of energy harvesting since it can eliminate the dependence on an external power supply. In this work, it introduces an innovative passive power management circuit (PMC) that employs cycles for maximized energy output strategy (CMEO) and unidirectional LC oscillation. Simulation results show that the proposed PMC can shorten the charging time by 88.3%, and increase the effective output power of 1 MΩ by 17.35 times. The influence of semiconductor on the performance of the PMC and the sources of energy loss are revealed by numerical analysis for energy transfer. Furthermore, the relationship between these losses and device selection is investigated through simulation and experiment, which contributes to improving the power management performance and expanding the range of available TENGs. Through optimizing device selection, the fabricated PMC is successfully applied to another 6.7 μW low-output TENG, which exhibits its excellent adaptable potential to various TENGs.



