---
layout: paper
title: A ternary-dielectric rolling TENG array for robust ocean energy harvesting and distributed environmental monitoring
image: "/lab_images/papers/260307-12.png"
authors: Ziyue Xi, Hengxu Du, Yawei Wang, Hongyong Yu, Shu Dai, Mingli Fan, Jingyi Liu, Quanke Su, Hao Wang, Guobiao Hu, Minyi Xu
year: 2025
ref: "Ziyue Xi Li.et al. 2025. Nano Energy."
journal: "Nano Energy"
pdf: "/pdfs/260307-12.pdf"
doi: 10.1016/j.nanoen.2025.111318
type: journal
---

# Abstract


Wave energy is a promising renewable energy source for marine applications. However, its low frequency and 
variability pose challenges for efficient energy conversion. This study presents a novel rolling-mode triboelectric nanogenerator (R-TENG) designed for self-powered wireless ocean monitoring. Configured as an array, the system can not only enhance spatial coverage and energy robustness but also enable distributed sensing. To guide the design, hydrodynamic simulations using WAMIT were carried out to evaluate the buoy’s dynamic response in the frequency domain. The output of the R-TENG was further boosted using an integrated power modulation strategy. Experimental results showed that a four-unit R-TENG array could charge a 10,000 µF up to 5 V in 175 s at a low frequency of 0.1 Hz and achieve a peak power of 114.3 mW with an optimal load of 5 MΩ. A wireless ocean sensing system was developed, supporting real-time monitoring of pH and temperature. Both forced 
motion experiments and nearshore sea trials validated the functionality of the integrated system, from energy 
harvesting and sensing to wireless data transmission to an onshore receiver. This work demonstrates a scalable 
and durable solution for self-sustained, distributed marine environment monitoring, paving the way for sustainable maritime Internet of Things.


